# Impact of COVID-19 on Flight Activity from January to July 2020

## Summary
This project evaluates domestic and international flight activity in the two periods of: 
* Jan - July 2019
* Jan - July 2020

We retrieved monthly data for international and domestic markets from the US Department of Transportation, Bureau of Transporation Statistics (BTS). The data has monthly summaries of passengers with origins and destinations of the flights taken each month and is only current through July 2020. For this reason, we limited our analysis to compare only January to July in 2019 and 2020.

Data Source: [Air Carriers: T-100 Market (All Carriers) from the Bureau of Transportation Statistics, US Department of Transporation](https://www.transtats.bts.gov/Tables.asp?DB_ID=111&DB_Name=Air%20Carrier%20Statistics%20%28Form%2041%20Traffic%29-%20All%20Carriers&DB_Short_Name=Air%20Carriers)

## Findings
The analysis explores the following questsions:

1. How has the pandemic impacted travel destinations? Is there a statistical significance when looking at travel to the US vs travel to other countries? 
  We found that there is a statistical significance in the percent change of passengers flying to the US and other countries in 2019 and 2020. 

2. How has the pandemic impacted the carriers?
  On average, the most affected airlines have suffered a reduction of more than 26 million transported passengers. The top 10 impacted airlines represent 74% of passengers lost during January – July 2020 vs 2019.

3. How has the pandemic impacted the domestic and international markets?
  International flights saw a greater reduction in passengers than the US domestic flights. Both markets saw a drastic reduction from well over 3,000 passengers to fewer than 500 passengers in April of 2020. 

## Files in the Repositiory
There are four Jupyter Notebooks, a Python file, and four folders in the repository.

Jupyter Notebooks:

* Data_Cleanup_Exploration - Notebook to clean up data files from data source and export a master csv for the team to work with.

* CarrierAnalysis - used to answer the question "How has the pandemic impacted the carriers?"

* MarketAnalysis - used to answer the question "How has the pandemic impacted the domestic and international markets?"

* DestinationAnalysis - used to answer the question "How has the pandemic impacted travel destinations?" A Google Maps API Key will be needed to run this notebook. update the api_keys.py file with your API Key.

Folders:

* resources - holds the raw data files from the BTS website

* output_data - the output location for the cleaned master csv

* images - contains images generated by analysis notebooks

* archive - contains individual work files for the team members


## Status
_in progress_


## Inspiration
This project was assigned as part of the UTSA Data BootCamp. The topic was inspired by current affairs and team member interests.
